# BinRadar: Patch Verification for Binary Patching Tools
```shell
git clone https://github.com/UNIST-LOFT/binradar.git
cd binradar
git submodule update --init --recursive
docker build -t fuzzolic:2204 -f docker/fuzzolic-runner/Dockerfile.Ubuntu2204 .
```

## Prerequisites
First, install guix and add the necessary channels. (Check [guix installation guide](https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Installation.html) for more details.)
Necessary channels are provided in `utils/channels.scm`. You can copy it to `~/.config/guix/channels.scm` or specify it with `--channels-file` option when you run `guix pull`.

Then, install [just](https://github.com/casey/just).

Now you can run `just taosc` in the target benchmark directory to generate patches with TAOSC.

[More instructions to run TAOSC](./docs/PATCHGEN.md)


## Usage
```shell
cd benchmarks/loftix/binutils/CVE-2017-14940
# Run `just --list` for available commands
just build
# guix build binutils@2.29
just taosc
# guix shell taosc -- taosc-fix 1 workdir poc "$(guix build binutils@2.29)/bin/nm" -l @@
just setup
# python3 /path/to/binradar/benchmarks/scripts/binradar_setup.py -w workdir
just binradar
# ABS_WORKDIR=$(cd "workdir" && pwd); docker run -v $ABS_WORKDIR:/workdir -v /gnu/store:/gnu/store:ro -v /var/guix:/var/guix:ro --rm fuzzolic:2204 uv run /root/fuzzolic/fuzzolic/binradar.py -w /workdir
```

### Configuration
Binradar requires `binradar.env` file in work directory.
```
POC_INPUT="poc/nullderef"
POC_DIR="poc"
BINARY="nm"
TEST_CMD="-l @@"
PATCH_LOC="0x4585dd"
TOTAL_PATCHES="10"
PATCH_RESERVE_ADDR="0x70001000"
```
This will be generated by `benchmarks/scripts/binradar_setup.py` after you run `just setup`.

If you want to add more configuration, 
you need to provide `config.env` file.
For example, `benchmarks/loftix/binutils/CVE-2017-14940/config.env` contains:
```
POC_INPUT="poc/nullderef"
POC_DIR="poc"
BINARY="nm"
TEST_CMD="-l @@"
GUIX_SPEC="binutils@2.29"
```

The configuration you should provide in `config.env` includes:
- POC_INPUT: a test case that triggers the vulnerability (e.g., a crashing input)
- POC_DIR: a directory containing poc inputs.
- BINARY: the target binary to be patched and verified. Patched binary should be named as `nm.brpatched` in the same directory.
- TEST_CMD: the command to run the test case with the binary. Use `@@` as a placeholder for the test case file path.
- GUIX_SPEC: the guix package spec for the target binary (e.g., `binutils@2.29`). This is used for binradar to find the buggy binary in guix store. 
If `GUIX_SPEC` is not given, then it uses `BINARY`. In that case, you should provide buggy program at `benchmarks/loftix/binutils/CVE-2017-14940/nm`.

The following configurations should be provided for `binradar.env` (will be automatically generated by `binradar_setup.py`):
- PATCH_LOC: the location of the patch (e.g., the address of the instruction to be patched)
- TOTAL_PATCHES: the total number of patches to be verified (e.g., if you have 2 candidate patches, set it to 2). Patch id 0 will be original program, and patch id 1, 2 will be candidate patches.
- PATCH_RESERVE_ADDR: the starting address of the reserved region in e9patch. BinRadar will ignore memory accesses in this region to avoid interference with the patch code.

All paths in the configuration should be relative to the working directory.

### Output
```shell
cd benchmarks/loftix/binutils/CVE-2017-14940
just binradar
# docker run -v /path/to/benchmarks/loftix/binutils/CVE-2017-14940/workdir:/workdir -v /gnu/store:/gnu/store:ro -v /var/guix:/var/guix:ro --rm fuzzolic:2204 uv run /root/fuzzolic/fuzzolic/binradar.py -w /workdir
```
Entrypoint is `fuzzolic/binradar.py`. It will read the `binradar.env` file in the specified working directory and run the verification process. You can also specify other options as needed.
Timeout can be given as `-t` or `--timeout` option (default: 3600 seconds).

Output will be saved in the `out` directory in the working directory. You can check the logs and results in the output directory.

`out/progress.log` file contains information about the progress of the verification process. 
`[final] [done] [id {run_id}] [remaining_patches {remaining_patches}] [binradar_remaining_patches {binradar_remaining_patches}]` indicates the final result of the verification process.

## Structure
### Orchestrator
- `fuzzolic/binradar.py`: main entry point for the verification process
- `fuzzolic/binradar_verifier.py`: implementation of the verification logic.
- `fuzzolic/analyze_type.py`: type inference used for binradar.

These are main phases:
1. PROBE: run the test cases with original binary to confirm the crash and collect information about the crash (e.g., fault address, patch function entrypoint, patch function hit count, etc.)
2. FUZZOLIC: run fuzzolic (concolic execution) with the original binary and the test cases to collect more concrete test cases.
3. DIRECTED: run modified fuzzolic with the original binary and the test cases to collect more directed test cases.
4. FUZZER: run simple binary-only fuzzer with the original binary and the test cases to collect more fuzzed test cases.
5. MINIMIZER: remove redundant or non-reachable concrete test cases.
6. VERIFIER: run patched binary with the collected test cases to check if the patch is correct. If any test case fails, the patch is rejected. If all test cases pass, the patch is verified.
7. BINRADAR: binradar - directly mutate the memory state and check if the patch is correct.
8. FINAL: finalize the verification process and save the results.

Among these phases, `FUZZOLIC`, `DIRECTED`, `FUZZER` and `BINRADAR` are run in parallel by default. You can run them sequentially by specifying `--seq` option. Also, you can specify which phases to run by using `--run-single-phase` option.

### tracer
Used for concolic execution (`fuzzolic`, `directed`) and `binradar`. Based on QEMU `4.1.1` with modifications for symbolic execution and type inference.

`type-infer` branch
- Main modified files:
  * tracer/linux-user/snapshot.c, h
  * tracer/linux-user/i386/signal.c
  * tracer/linux-user/syscall.c
  * tracer/tcg/symbolic/symbolic.c, h
  * tracer/tcg/symbolic/models.c
  * tracer/tcg/symbolic-i386.c
- Forkserver: Implemented
- Type Analyzer
  * Logging memory accesses with region info: (trace_mem())
    + Heap: hook into malloc()/free()
    + Stack: hook for callq/ret
    + Global: hook into program segments in elf load
    + Other: ignored
  * Post-processing analyzer: python script (fuzzolic/analyze_type.py)
    + Recover base addresses of each memory chunk using heuristic
- Memory modification
  * Implemented in tracer/tcg

### solver
Used for solving path constraints and producing concrete test cases in `fuzzolic` and `directed`.

### LibAFL
`LibAFL/fuzzers/binary_only/qemu_stacktrace`: Used for `probe`, `minimizer`, and `verifier` phases. Run original or patched binary with the concrete test cases and get the results.

`LibAFL/fuzzers/binary_only/qemu_targeted_simple`: Used for fuzzing in `fuzzer` phase. Collect test cases that can reach the patch location. Fuzzing is done using simple coverage-based fuzzing strategies.
